Will technology eliminate the need for animal testing in drug development?

Imagine yourself as a being who can speak but no one can comprehend you. You are kept in captivity, in a place where you can hardly breathe. You are finally selected and taken out of that place, it is a happy moment for you. You can finally have your freedom but sadly instead of being free, you are prodded by rods and fed toxic substances against your will. The only thing you can do is scream in vain. Your voice is heard by everyone but it gets lost in the noise of scientific advancement. You writhe in pain as the substances take effect on your body, the pain slowly creeps into your body and you slowly succumb to it, never to wake up again.
Since the time of Aristotle, animals have been subjected to various inhumane experiments for the sake of knowledge. These experiments though unethical were very necessary for the advancement of science. Animal testing has become an important part of experimenting on living organisms to ensure that a product is safe for humans to consume. The lab animals are generally subjected to high levels of toxicity while being kept in isolation due to which they have to suffer a lot of stress and discomfort. Animal testing has a large number of drawbacks:
Animals and human beings react differently to certain substances. For example, in 2004, Vioxx withdrew “rofexocib” after more than 80,000 people suffered heart attacks after taking the drug. Although the drug showed no such effects during animal testing, it posed threat to human beings.
All of these things make us question ourselves. Is it even worth it? Is it possible to stop this cruelty without hampering our growth?
With the advancement in science, it can be made possible that we don’t have to use animals ever again.
Advanced computing– With the availability of various software programs it has become easier to understand the working of a biological organism. We can replicate the entire human body and conduct various tests to get generate simulations to assess the possible effects of a chemical or biological reaction. For example, CADD (Computer-aided drug design) is becoming popular for stimulating whether a particular drug affects the cells or not. This cuts down the requirement of using animals for testing and also reduces the experimentation time as the researchers don’t have to wait for the animals to show response.
These bio-printed models can also be used by the researchers to conduct experiments on them without using animals for it. A French company is working on a bio-printed liver model to test liver toxicity without having to use animals at all. This is a breakthrough in the field of bio-technology as it can bring down animal experimentation by a large percentage.
Organ-on-a-chip method
These alternatives can help in bringing down animal experimentation to a large extent. If science can progress without harming animals then we should go for it rather than putting them through excruciating pain. We must protect the animals as much as we can or else we would soon be living in a world without them.

