How Voice search makes your business a successful business.

Finding ways to make using the Internet easier is something most modern consumers are passionate about. Since the rise of AI-infused technology like Amazon’s Alexa or Apple’s Siri, voice search has grown increasingly popular. In fact, nearly
As this technology grows more popular and complex with each passing day, business owners are starting to take notice of voice search. Capitalizing on this trend is only possible when optimizing the content on your website for voice search. Are you trying to make your website more voice search-friendly? If so, check out the following tips.
1. Accuracy of voice search
In the past, if you wanted relevant answers from a voice recognition technology, well—good luck with that. But today, machine learning systems can compete with people in terms of accuracy. Google’s voice recognition, Google is now able to understand human language with 95 percent accuracy. These improvements mean that, while you can trust good voice systems to match customers with the right products, services, or information with increasing degrees of nuance, leading businesses already have set customer expectations for delivery. Thanks to machine learning algorithms that can detect speech and respond with meaningful results.
2. The interest in voice is only going to grow
Because voice search systems are at a point where they actually can perform reliably and meet customer expectations just as well (if not better) than traditional query options, customer trust in them is growing:
60% of 18-to-49-year-olds
Yet, only
3. People are after convenience and all types of information
When people use voice search, they don’t just want to locate a great pair of shoes or a TV.
Shoppers are also after general tips that can take some of the friction out of everyday life—think life hacks and how-tos. In fact, words like “how,” “what,” “best,” and “easy” are among the top voice search queries. This means that when it comes to online marketing, you probably need to change your entire optimization approach, taking elements like grammar and semantics, the structure of your site, and structured data markup that influences Google’s ability to find your content. Of course, optimizing from the start, not as an afterthought, is ideal.
4. How Voice become part of customer-brand interactions 
Voice Search can be used on both desktop and mobile searches. We can see that customers want different types of information from voice systems, they also can use it at many points in the customer journey. For example, about half of shoppers use voice to research products, even “near me” searches results are mostly done by customers.
Add items to shopping lists (36%)Track packages (30%)Make a purchase (22%)Give a rating or review (20%)Contact support (18%)Reorder something (17%)
These statistics show you should think beyond just having customers find you or your products. Voice search and commands can take your buyers from start to finish, so give your customers as much convenience and satisfaction as possible by integrating voice options into more types of interactions.
5. Voice is often just the starting point
A
