Global Economy effected by Coronavirus
INTRODUCTION
Coronavirus disease
Most people infected with this COVID-19 virus will experience mild to moderate respiratory disease and recover without
The best way to prevent and slow down transmission is
The
At this time, there are no specific vaccines or treatments for this virus. However, there are many ongoing clinical trials calculating potential treatments. Which will continue to provide regular basis information as soon as clinical findings become available
IMPACT
The emergence of COVID-19 is a tragic public-health emergency. The disease, one hopes, will be brought under control quickly, but the International Monetary Fund is already warning that economic growth in
The first risk is obviously in China itself. While the precise
origins of the disease remain unclear, it is hard to take a definite view on
whether outbreaks of this kind could be avoided – for example, by better
control over hygiene in food markets. But it is painfully obvious that a lack
of transparency in China has contributed to fear and even signs of panic around
the world.
As financial markets go down in 2007-2008, when the precise incidence of big risks is not well understood, people tend to assume the worse. Rapidly falling asset prices may not contain much information–except that there is not much information to be had.
The Chinese
authorities surely do not have all the answers at this point, but their
inclination to suppress data and interpretation is tremendously unhelpful.
Second, the lack of American leadership is more painfully apparent every day. The United States has the strongest medical-health system and facilities in the world, with the capacity for research and development
The private
Even the most fervent believer in
The third risk is in emerging markets and developing countries. Poorer countries are ill-equipped to deal with this kind of disease,
The news that
We should be much more concerned about other countries,
It seems unlikely that this disease will prove to be as deadly as some of those that our ancestors experienced. Medical practice and public health have advanced a great deal.
Still, this coronavirus is a warning. Societies neglect access
to health-care systems and reduce investments in Research and development at
great peril. Diseases are always evolving, and we must continually increase our
capacity to understand and fight newly emerging threats.
The best way forward is by strengthening science,
Investing more in science is an appealing economic proposition. Given very high rates
But this is not about economics. More likely than not, one day a scientist will save your life or the life of a loved one because his or her previous work produced a drug, treatment, or just an idea that made a critical difference. We should invest in scientists to save ourselves and our neighbors. Also, we must remember that we have neighbors all over our deeply interconnected world.
Global
shares take a hit
Big shifts in stock markets,
The
FTSE, Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nikkei have all seen huge falls
since the outbreak began on 31 December.
The Dow and the FTSE recently saw their biggest one-day declines since 1987.

Investors
fear the spread of the coronavirus will destroy economic growth and that
government action may not be enough to stop the decline.
In
response, central banks in many countries, including the United Kingdom, have
slashed interest rates.
That should, in theory, make borrowing cheaper and
encourage spending to boost the economy.
Global
markets did also recover some ground after the US Senate passed a $2 trillion
(£1.7tn) coronavirus aid bill to help workers and businesses.
But
some analysts have warned that they could be volatile until the pandemic is
contained.
INDIAN ECONOMY
India faces a
Officially, the government is still sticking to the target of achieving 6-6.5% in the next financial year beginning
He said receipts from much-delayed privatization of
On
Wednesday, the government suspended almost all visas to the country till April
15
65,000
Tour
60%
India annually earns nearly

As this situation will take time to recover and economy not only of India but globally is in a recession it up to government how they come up with their measure.
If we look at recent action of US
But if we think in another way there will be a shift in a lot of pattern like people will now go for short term investment in the stock market due to uncertainty of life, Insurance stocks will be benefited, logistics & distribution network will totally change as factories will now try to procure material from nearest location and there will be an increase in the personal saving of people because of which automakers and real estate sector may be hit hard.
If we estimate, it will take around 1 year to get back in a track from now and all this will happen if the government and central bank continuously come up with relief measure 

